# Let's get started [video] [review] 

Hello.  Welcome to 'Why numbers matter.'

In this course, we'll explore the role of numerical data in our research, and how it affects each and every one of us in our day-to-day lives.  

Many of us don't sit down and 'do the sums' unless we are faced with a big financial decision.  We've grown accustomed to thinking of numbers as the exclusive domain of scientists and mathematicians.

But if you really stop to think about it we use numbers to make decisions every single day.  

Questions like 'How much time do you spend with our family or colleagues, what should you eat for dinner, or how should you get to work' are all decided, at least in part, with numbers.

When you consider that everyone in our community is making similar small decisions each and every day, you realise how quickly they add up.

Throughout the course, we'll help you to use numbers to make better informed decisions to help solve problems.  We'll look at what quantitative research can be used for, how to determine the boundaries of our research and how to find useful things to measure. 

In Week 2, we'll look at using statistics to make sense of our data.  Statistics help us understand the distribution of our data, which means we can look at the proportions of people in our community who struggle financially, or how people in your local area are to go to the ballet rather than the cinema.  

Statistical can also help us understand if one thing that happens is related to another.  Does having children increase the number of people you'd describe as close friends?  Does introducing standardised testing into schools change the way that teachers help their students in the classroom?  

No matter who you are, you are capable of using numbers to make better informed and fairer decisions to help improve your well-being, workplace and community.

For an overview of all course activities and steps, see the [course map].

## Your learning outcomes [review]
By completing this course you should be able to:

* Understand statistical analysis, including types of data, averages, proportions and confidence intervals.
* Demonstrate the application of statistical analyses to make decisions about real world problems
* Explain the role of quantitative research and select an appropriate study design
* Justify and demonstrate the role of quantitative research in your research project

## Meet the team
Your Lead Educators for this course are Associate Professor [Chris Stevenson](https://www.futurelearn.com/profiles/6911268) and Professor [Nick Barter](https://www.futurelearn.com/profiles/4377691).

Chris trained as a mathematician, and currently works as a biostatistician and epidemiologist at Deakin University.  He has previously worked for the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

Nick is from Griffith University, and works tirelessly to help corporations to understand how to make more sustainable decisions.

Also on hand are [Angela Victor](https://www.futurelearn.com/profiles/6439552) and [Chris Rawson](https://www.futurelearn.com/profiles/6840817), who both specialise in learning, teaching and providing learners with quality educational experience at Griffith and Deakin Universities, respectively.

If you haven’t already, view your team’s profiles and follow them to keep up with the latest course updates, feedback and discussions.

You can also follow the conversation on Twitter using [#FLNumbersMatter].

## Your task

In the comments, share why you’re taking this online course and what you hope to get out of it.
