# Research in controlled environments, such as a laboratory, can help us to understand how things vary together.

What does a biochemist who looks at how molecules can guard against antibacterial resistance, a mall owner with empty shops trying to see what will happen if she puts down the rent, an architect trying to figure out if a skycraper can withstand a cyclone and an IT developer looking at how people interact with a new user interface have in common?

They're all experimenting to find out what happens to something when you change something else.  Or to put it more formally, they are observing the effects on a dependent variable after manipulating an independent variable.

By doing so, we can find out if two or more variables are related (or 'correlated') to one another.  Variables could be almost anything that research identify and being important to understanding a problem.  It could be measuring physical things like the weight of a car, or the behaviour of living things.  The only criteria for something being considered as a variable is that we can measure its variation.


## What do we mean by 'controlled environment'?

A controlled environment isn't necessarily a laboratory.  It is simply an environment that allows a researcher to control and manipulate the variables that they are interested in - and make sure that the variables they're not interested in don't get in the way.

Outside of a laboratory, this is not always easy.  There might be many things that influence what we're seeeing happen.  To ensure that we are testing only what we set out to, you could weave [scientific controls](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_control) into your research design. Controls are achieved, essentially, by doing two experiments which are as close to exactly the same in every respect, except in one you change the independent variable and in the other, you don't.  The controls then act like counterweights to help us understand if what we are observing is really caused by, or even related to, whatever has been changed.

The most famous example of a scientific control is the use of placebos in randomised control trials.  If you're testing whether or not taking a tablet could help people quit smoking, you could give people the tablet and then see how many quit.  But these people might be quitting just because being part of the trial has given them the impetus they need to do so.  Introducing a control group who have been given a placebo, but are otherwise as close as possible in every respect to the other group, would mean we could consider your tests results as being more reliable.

To bring it back to our original premise, this expiriment would mean we would know if our two variables (taking a tablet or not / quitting smoking or not) vary together.  

If they:
* vary together, then taking a tablet is associated with people quitting.
* don't vary together, then taking a tablet is not associated with quitting smoking and vice-versa
* vary apart, then taking a tablet means that people smoke more than they would have otherwise.

There are a number of techniques for introducing scientific controls besides placebos, such as controlling against other factors which might include how fit a person already is, how much family support they have to quit smoking or how old they are.  These controls rely, in the first instance, on carefully selecting the people or things that take part in your study.   

We'll look at this is more detail next week when we discuss [sampling populations](link).  If you're interested, or if it's important to your research, you can [read more about it here.](http://methods.sagepub.com/reference/encyc-of-research-design/n77.xml)


## Types of controlled studies

There are a whole bunch of study types listed below which involve a controlled environment.  

Take a look through the comments and choose one item of the list that no-one else has chosen.  If they're all taken, choose one that not many people have.

Do some research online to find out a little more about them, and summarise what you've discovered.

Share your summary in the comments.


__RCTs__

