You might choose to undertake research in an uncontrolled environments if controlling the environment is not really an option, may be unethical or if it would make you less certain about your results.

Controlled environments are very good at letting us isolate variables, but unless you have the resources to introduce controls against a multitude of naturally occuring factors, we can be less certain if these are truly the factors that make a difference.  That's because the real world is more complex than a laboratory.  Research in the field, therefore, can help us to observe and identify things in their natural setting, and identify the factors which have the greatest impacts. 

You might remember that in _Why Research Matters_ we introduced you to a [controlled study which found that physical warmth promoted feelings of interpersonal warmth](link).  This relied on a ruse.  A researcher posed as a passerby with their hands full of books, files and a hot or iced-coffee.  They asked the people who were about to do the test to hold their coffee while they pressed a button in an elevator.  Afterwards, the people felled in a survey asking them how they'd describe some people in a picture.  You will probably remember that the people with warm drinks described them in 'warmer' terms than the people who held the iced-coffee.

But would that work in real life? What would happen if they met a real person rather than an image?  How would they express their feelings without a survey in front of them?  

Finding this out would be messy.  In a controlled environment, we can regulate the temparature of the coffee or the elevator, show people the same picture and give them the same survey.  If we simply observed people interacting in a variety of different locations where they might have hot or cold drinks, things would be more messy and we couldn't be as sure about our results.  But if we saw this happening over and over again when we watched people in their 'natural environment', wouldn't we be _more_ certain?  






## Research in uncontrolled environments

Research in an uncontrolled environment often occurs when the environment is so complex that we need to see what would happen outside of a lab to be confident about our results.  


- when context is important

One classic example would be cataloguing the plants and animals found in an ecosystem, and looking at the effect that an introduced species has had on it.

- where it would be pretty well impossible to test in a controlled environment

- where a natural experiment lets us off the hook


observing and cataloguing biodiversity in a small ecosystem, or looking at the effectiveness of measures taken to reduce the population of harmful introduced species (like cane toads).  


Take this example, which those of you with an especially good memory may also recall appeared during _Why Research Matters_.  A team of international researchers were aware of mounting evidence that parents of girls were more likely to get divorced than parents of boys.  However, this evidence had been gathered from a bunch of data testing other things.  So they set up a 'natural experiment,' or a situation that meets the conditions of an experiment that has occured naturally.

They looked at over two million marriages in Holland over a ten year period, and found that [there was indeed around a 5% greater risk of girl's parents getting divorced](https://theconversation.com/parents-of-teenage-daughters-more-likely-to-divorce-study-84704) if they had a 15-year-old daughter, compared to a son.  They also found that this risk disappeared if the girl's father grew up with a sister.  

While it was, of course, not possible to say with absolute clarity why this was the case, the researchers were still able to test a number of theories about why this would be the case.  They found that the most likely explanation was that in some households where fathers held very traditional views on gender roles, this strained their relationship with the girl's mother who, we'd assume, wanted greater freedom for her daughter.  

## In defense of controlled environments

Don't get too caught up in distinctions between lab and field.  A well designed control study can also take place in the field.  A randomised control trial, like the one where we tested if taking a tablet could help us stop smoking, is a good example of this.

However, these are exceptionally complex studies that take huge amounts of resources - they require equipment, drugs to be developed (in this case) and large teams of researchers over a period of many years.  All this adds up to a lot of money.  

Theoretically speaking, there's no reason that any observation that occurs in an uncontrolled environment couldn't be controlled.  Although it may be utterly impractical and completely infeasible, where there's a will, there might be a way.

## Your task

Design a natural experiment
