Good quantitative research is underpinned, in many cases, by good qualitative research.

The was once a time where researchers lived in different tribes.  A researcher did either qualitative or quantitative research, and was recognised as such.  In those times, scientists worked with numbers and humanists worked with everything else and the two rarely crossed paths except to argue with one-another.

If those days aren't already over, they are on the way out. There is now much wider recognition on the value of working collaboratively and developing research skills in both areas.

Using a combination of numerical data and stories can give is a very rich and nuanced understanding of people's experiences of a problem, while helping us to comprehensively understand how widespread a problem is, and the things we could do to help us to fix or avoid it.  It also has the advantage of letting us see if two different forms of data paint a similar picture, which might tell us that our results are more valid.




[[

## DUMPED FROM PREVIOUS STEP

## We still need qualitative research

One of the questions that sometimes pops into people's minds is 'why do we still need qualitative research'?  After all, quantitative research can tell us about the world with a greater degree of accuracy, precision and reproducability. 

But there are things worth knowing that we can't find out using statistics.  Trying to do so would be unscientific.

As we saw throughout _Why Experience Matters_, qualitative research is a very powerful way of understanding how we perceive, understand and communicate about the world.  We all tell ourselves powerful stories, grand narratives, to make sense of the world and our place within it.  It's worth remembering that ultimately when we analyse and explain our data we are producing a story too. 

Just like any other story, our interpretation of the results is prone to differ.  What we will do with the results and the decisions we make about them are, like any story, caught up in our experiences of how we understand the world and our place within it.  Unfortunately, some people put little stock in science.

How do you _measure_ variations in people's understanding of the world?  It's not impossible, but the complexity of these understandings and the highly invidual nature of them makes it often a prohibitive task.  Certainly, counting or arranging the distribution of words from an interview - or from a great novel - might not do much to help us to properly understand what they really mean.  And, like interpreting quantitative results, our interpretation of other stories differ too.  You might have a strong idea of why a Grecian Urn might be described as ["Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness!"](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/44477/ode-on-a-grecian-urn), but your interpretation is likely to be difficult to measure.

This does not make them any less worthy of a researcher's attention. As we learnt during _Why Experience Matters_, we all interpret and communicate stories as individuals and as societies as a way of making sense of the world and our place within it.  These paradigms, or grand narratives, have an exceptionally powerful impact on our thoughts, feelings, beliefs and behaviour. 

## Mixed methods

Quantitative research is great for measuring and comparing variations and qualitative research can get to the heart of the way we experience the world and why we behave the way we do.

In complex situations that involve people's behaviours, using a combination can give us an exceptionally powerful insight into what will happen if we make a change, how people will behave and how others might experience the change.  After all, these things usually depend on another.

For example, we we able to find out that people buy less unhealthy and more healthy drinks if you put up the price of the ones loaded with sugar.  But if we want to know why people chose something when the price went up, or whether or not retailers are willing to do it, we need to know how staff and their customers feel about it.  This is why Miranda and the team at GLOBE asked.]]

## Mixed-methods in practise

Take the issue of homelessness.  If you want to know what puts you at risk of becoming homeless, you might be able to get somewhere using quantitative methods.  Similarly, if you want to know what it's like to be homeless and have a detailed account of the kinds of difficulties that people who are at risk of becoming homeless face, you'd probably consider a qualitative approach.

But if you want to know both, you need to mix your method up.  

[This is something like the problem that Thompson & Bridier (2013) faced when looking into the problem of homelessness in war veterans in the United States of America. They wanted to know what homeless war veterans need to meet their needs and aspirations for the future?

Research showed veterans living in poverty, of who come from an ethnic minority, are three times more likely to become homeless than people in the same situation who are not war veterans.  This problem becomes especially acute after the veterans reach 51 years of age.  
The authors developed an exploratory study to find out where it might be most beneficial to focus our research effort in future.

They used a standardised survey to discover veteran's participant's demographics, how long they'd been homeless and served in the military, their physical and mental health and the goods and services they said they needed.  The surveys they gave care providers described their characteristics, and assessed their perceptions of the whether the services they delivered were meeting needs and were well-cordinated.  
The then used interviews to ask veterans about their life experiences, their experiences of military services, their needs and their hopes for the future.  

As a result, they were able to identify the most pressing needs for the veterans when taking into account the veteran's expressed desires, their characteristics (such as their health or employable skills) and the care that homeless services were providing.  Using mixed-methods allowed them to verify these results by [triangulating](http://www.bmj.com/bmj/section-pdf/186156?path=/bmj/341/7783/Research_Methods_Reporting.full.pdf) between  data sources.

And, because they used a standardised test, they were able to compare these results between people living in different locations at different times.

## Your task

Thompson & Bridier (2013) were able to list [the most pressing needs of homeless veterans](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/jar/2013/570407/tab2/).  Choose one of these needs and propose a mixed-methods study to help us develop a better understanding of the problem. 

Describe your designs in the comments section.  Feel free to leave a link to mindmapping software such as [Padlet](link), if that helps you to explore your design.

###### References

###### [Thompson, C. J., & Bridier, N. L. (2013). Homeless aging veterans in transition: a life-span perspective. Journal of aging research, 2013.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2013/570407)

###### Further reading: find link on how to conduct a mixed methods study that is OA



