# Two world-class universities have come together for you [Minor review to avoid facsimile with previous courses]

You’re in great hands. This course has been crafted by leading researchers from both Deakin and Griffith Universities.

Our world-class universities have joined forces because we’re committed to research and we believe in the power of collaboration.

You too will have many opportunities to collaborate with like-minded learners, our lead educators and industry peers throughout this course. Join in at each discussion point and share your thoughts in the comments section anytime. You are not alone on this journey.

## Our learning philosophy
Our universities are enthusiastic about innovative learning and our aim is to:

challenge you with new and interesting ideas
prompt you to connect and engage with other learners and educators
test your knowledge and understanding against clearly defined learning outcomes.
To get the most out of this course, we encourage you to keep in mind the following:

## Get involved
Our courses are pitched at adult learners from around the globe who, like you, have diverse work, life and study experiences. One of the most important ways to optimise your learning is to connect, respond and engage in topic-related conversations with other participants.

Likewise, participating in the set tasks is critical to getting the most out of this course.

## Be mindful of others
Sometimes we will ask you to share personal opinions or experiences that may be sensitive or controversial in nature. In such situations, you should only share your thoughts if you’re comfortable doing so.

While we encourage robust debate, we also ask you to observe the FutureLearn [Code of Conduct](https://about.futurelearn.com/terms/code-of-conduct) and be respectful of other participants and their individual points of view.

## The 3Cs
In engaging with other learners, remember to use the 3Cs:

_Curious_ - ask questions, seek clarification, be open to others’ differences
_Constructive_ - build on other learners’ ideas, arguments or experiences
_Compassionate_ - be kind and respectful towards others.

## Your task

If this is the first time you’ve studied online, you might want to use the comments section below to ask some questions. On the other hand, if you’ve previously studied with FutureLearn, you may be able to answer questions, share your own experiences or offer some helpful tips and advice.
