# Why do numbers matter?

## We use numbers to help us make decisions every day.

Stop for a moment about the range of decisions that you made over the last few days. 

Most of us will think, at first, of the considered decisions that you acted on with intention, like leaving work early, getting in touch with an old friend or joining us in this course.

If you think a little bit further, a huge variety of small decisions will come to mind.  What did you have for breakfast, which route did you take to work, which product did you purchase?  

On any one day, these decisions scale up quickly.  

During [Why Research Matters](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/why-research-matters/), Nick Barter reminded us that something as simple as buying honey from the supermarket requires bees and flowers, which require an incredibly complex ecosystem to function. It also requires supply chains, logistics, infrastructure and factories need to be in place to bottle and ship the honey to markets. To make this happen, we rely on getting paid - which requires an economy, employers, international financial institutions like banks, law, technologies which underpin and reinforce an unwavering belief in the power of money as a form of exchange. 

To help provide us with, and to some extent define, the choices that we are able to make, governments, businesses and other organisations make decisions every day that affect a great number of us.  What are the goods and services that are offered? What are the safety standards for roads we use or medicines we take? What resources should be supplied for the provision of education? Which film or exhibition should be commissioned? 

## Why numbers matter

Numbers are an incredibly powerful tool to help us make informed judgments and understand how they might affect others.  They can also help us to understand how others might view or experience the world around them.

How can we know which health treatments are effective without ethically testing them with a representative sample of people? Without those tests how would doctors and hospitals know which treatments to offer or governments which treatments to fund?      

## [This is a good kind of example - real world example that involves describing the characteristics of a population, sizing up the scope of a problem and explaining a relationship between a belief and an action - maybe the study about parents of girls getting a divorce?]

Numerical data can be useful for things outside the usual scope of science or policy, also.  In [2016], a group of researchers [surveyed well over 1,500 workers in media organisations] to [describe their characteristics] and found [that they were all white people from a university educated background mostly from private schools] who were [generally politically progressive].  There was a relationship between [people's age and experience in the industry] and their likelihood to describe the mission of news media as being to [participate and shape debate] rather than [simply inform the public] or [work within the national interest].

OR - [age and facebook use and likelihood to seek news media elsewhere]


What if research could help us make




## Your task

It's often said that numbers are not a substitute for judgement.  How can numbers help to inform and improve our judgement?  Leave your response, with examples, in the comments section.

How could you use numbers to make more informed decisions, that could help you take back control of your day-to-day life?

Who are you, what brings you to the course, etc.

