# Quantitative and qualitative research are two sides of the same coin

Strong quantitative research is increasingly underpinned by both what's been discovered using qualitative methods. 

One of the enduring challenges of quantitative research is _defining_ the shape of your problem so that you can come up with a research question that will give you a useful answer.  To do that, you need to have an idea of the characteristics of what you are studying, what you want to know about it and what you can measure to help you to find out.

[Potential inclusion: Some questions are essentially quantitative.  At what temparature will steel melt, or does long periods of exposure to the sun cause skin cancers?  

Of course, an understand of the underlying physics or biology will help with these questions, but at the end of the day they will be answered by repeatedly heating the steel to its melting point, or by observing whether people with skin cancers have been exposed to the sun.  If the numbers are oberwhelming, then we can probably see a cause.

But it gets more complicated once we broaden our field of inquiry.  'How do we prevent people getting skin cancer' is a question as much about human behaviours, societies and cultures as it is about biology.  To answer this kind of question, we're going to need to take a qualitative approach to set up a framework for future quantiative research.]


We'll look at each in turn over the next few steps.

## The shape of the problem

One of the problems Chris Stevenson is working on is how to encourage people to make healthier choices about what to drink.

Consuming too much sugar in our drinks is [an international problem](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0124845). The over consumption of sugary drinks such soft drink or soda, fruit juice and 'energy drinks' is associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease (Singh et. al. 2015).  

Before we can begin to craft effective strategies to encourage people to make better choices, we need to understand the _shape_ of the problem.  In other words, we need to begin to build a picture of its characteristics, to see if we can identify what it might be useful to address.  In this case, we might ask 'What do the people who drink too much sugar-water have in common and why?'


[List of the strategies GLOBE has pursued].

### Factors 

Answering these questions may well require qualitative methods.  After speaking to, observing or asking people to record their own observations about why they consume sugary drinks, you might find a number of reasons people do so.  These might include the tacit expectation of friends and family, the influence of advertising, cheapness and convenience.


### Your task

Search online for data on the consumptions of sugar sweetened beverages in your locality. If you can't find any, use either these [international figures](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0124845), or  figures from [Australia](http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/4364.0.55.007main+features7102011-12) or the [United Kingdom](www.google.com).

Once you have this data, come up with one or two inter-related research questions that could help you to understand the shape of your problem.

Share your research qestions in the comments section.

### Potential inclusions

* Purely quantitative questions (at what temparature does steel melt?)
* First and second order observations - ie, first order as it appears in nature, second order after human intervention. So, difference between cataloguing biodiversity and cataloguing laws in place to protect biodiversity.
* Both qual and quant's role in dismissing our assumptions (part of case study but not made explicit), and the underlying ideologies underpinning 'second order' observations.  Could go the 'nuclear' option and talk about Nazi's chillingly objective formula for deciding who is and is not a Jew. We haven't properly addressed ideology (in the sense of 'the big stories we tell ourselves to make sense of the world', rather than the narrower 'belief without evidence' sense) at all in the courses.
