# The dimensions of your problem

## Quantitative research helps us to measure the dimensions of a problem.

Once we have an idea of the shape of our research problem, we need to set about figuring out its dimensions.  By dimensions, we mean we need to figure out how often the characteristics that we've identified turn up in the broader population.  

If we are looking at how the tacit expectations of friends encourages people to drink more sugary stuff, we might need to measure how the average amount people drink with friends. Similarly, if we are looking at cheapness, we might like to measure the correlation between the price of the beverage and sales. If it turns out that it's not very much, we might need to go back again and review the shape we've outlined.  


## A real world example

Sometimes our dimensions might include characteristics that aren't easy to see and so can slip under the radar, like time.

A group of Australian researchers, including Dr Kathryn Backholer, noticed that vending machines typically offered only unhealthy drinks and snacks.  They were aware of a number of studies that suggested that convenience was one of the main factors behind making food choices. 

The team wondered what would happen if vending machines offered a range of healthy options alongside of the chocolate and fizzy drinks (Boelsen-Robinson et al 2017). They also wanted to know how vending machine owners would respond to any suggestions that they make changes to the range of healthy options available.

This wasn't the first time this had been attempted, and the results had been been mixed. Although three out of four previous trials  had found that more people purchased more healthy snacks (Gorton et al., 2010; Hoerr & Louden, 1993; Kocken et al., 2012), one found that it made no difference (Fiske & Cullen, 2004). Likewise, one of the four studies found a corresponding decrease in overall sales and none found an increase.

Mixed results like this meant that the research team knew that if they wanted their trial to be successful, they'd need to refine the shape of their strategy by introducing new factors to their research methodology: time, consumer education at point of sale and the motivation of the vendor machine owners. 

So, the team set up a trial of 37 vending machines in three hospitals, and labelled items with the colours of the traffic lights to indicate healthy, eat in moderation and unhealthy choices. They also filled the vending machines so that a maximum of 20% of the options were red (unhealthy), and a mimimum 50% were green (healthy) with amber products making up whatever was left over.

The team gathered sales data from two and a half years prior to the trial, through to a year after it to see if had made any difference.  They also interviewed the key stakeholders in the implementation of the trial at the hospitals.    

### Results

#### Sales

The results were of the trial were encouraging:
* Sales of red products decresed by 55.7% to 55% of overall sales (based on expected sales trends)
* Sales of amber products remained steady at 30.5%
* Sales of green products represented 14.5% of overall sales.  Green products were not previously offered.

Ultimately, this lead to:
* 850 litres/225 gallons less sugary drinks being purchased per month
* 100 kilograms / 220 pounds less sugar being purchased per month.

However, overall sales decreased by 20.7%. 

#### Interviews

When they interviewed the people involved in implementing the policy in the hospitals, they found that they had strong support from the executive - despite decreased sales - because promoting healthy choices was seen as the right thing to do and the hospitals wanted to lead by example.  

They also found that the implementation had allowed them to work more closely with their supplier, which was an educative process for everyone involved.  The suppliers learned about nutrition, which in turn led to a contract to continue supplying healthier options to vending machines.  The health professionals learnt about the business models, identifying the difficulties that machine operators were under to source and supply healthier options.  

### Your task

Learners refine their Qt question to ensure it measures something testable and useful.



*  [Hi Chris - I know that sales trends were also identified as being overlooked, but I think that indexation (and counterfactuals) move a little beyond the bivariate correlation we get to in the course.  Maybe that's where we need to talk about bringing in further expertise?]
