[Revise to reduce wordcount]

Defining what you should measure measure is a foundational step during any quantitative research project.  It will depend on what you _can_ measure.

Researchers can spend a good deal of time figuring out what to measure.  In some cases, [discovering new ways to measure things](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0138660) is a research project in and of itself.

Knowing what to measure might seem simple at first, but in reality it can be a complicated business. 

## Practicality

If we have no practical way of measuring something then we really can't keep track of how it varies.  The challenge of measuring physical things tend to be practical.  If you're observing a colony of emperor penguins on Antarctica, you're going to have to figure out how to get yourself and your instruments there and back safely.  If you want to know how many bottles of soft drink were sold, you're going to need the shop owners to agree to hand over the data.

With social changes, this can be a theoretical problem.  If we want to know how people young people will respond to an online campaign about respecting people's rights regardless of who they are and where they come from, do we measure how many people have looked at it, how long they've spent online looking through information or do we include a survey asking people how their attitudes have changed?

## Variation

Moreover, you can't measure things that never vary.

This may sound strange to begin with because so much of what we measure is more or less constant.  But we are not talking about individual objects or measurements, rather that they are in a class that are somehow comparable.  In other words, we're not talking about the boiling point of water or the diameter of the earth so much as the heat of the water and the size of planets.  

Measuring variation is essential to understanding how widespread a characteristic is, figuring out what is normal and discovering relationships between things, and determining cause and effect.  It is therefore essential that the variables that you measure have been chosen with care.

Variables are usually described as being either [dependent](glossary) or [independent](glossary).  These labels describe the variables relationship to each other.  A dependent variable will vary _because_ the independent variable does. For example, water will boil _because_ of a sufficient increase in temperature.


## Precision

That leads us to the question, 'how do you decide what's a healthy or unhealthy drink?'   Another way of asking this question might be 'how precise do you need to be?'

Sometimes there's no clear answer. It comes down to how much information you need to satisfy yourself and decision makers that you have can stand by your hypothesis.

Broad categories may be enough, although sometimes we need to take into account complex variables like the proportion of sugar or amount of calories or kilojules in each drink. In practice, it is often wise to take detailed measurements and then categorise them in the analysis phase or when you are explaining their results to people because it's usually easier to group measurements together than it is to re-measure everything.  

For their study, Miranda Blake and the GLOBE team used the [the traffic light system](http://heas.health.vic.gov.au/healthy-choices/guidelines/traffic-light-system), which  ranks food and drink based on their nutritional content.

Water and low-fat milk got a green light.  Small fruit juice, flavoured milk and diet soda got an amber light.  Fizzy, sports and 'energy' drinks got a red.  Even using this system, there were plenty of borderline cases which required 'executive' decisions.  

The convenience store owners agreed to put the price of red drinks up by 20% for an eighteen week trial, and left green and amber unchanged.

## Pragmatism

You might be wondering 'why the traffic light system?'  

The answer to this question is essentially a pragmatic one. The cut off point for what was unhealthy needed to make sense for a convenience store.  The traffic light system has been developed by experts to help food and drink retailers in hospitals to make decisions about which products to offer and promote to customers. 

Moreover, they are guidelines developed by the Victorian State Government, who have primary responsibility for funding and regulating the hospital in which the trial took place. So there is no doubt that the system was applicable to the store itself.


## Your task

Miranda and the team decided to use the traffic light system to decide what to categorise as healthy or unhealthy.  What other variables might they have measured, and what other systems might they have used to categorise their measurements.  How do you think this would have affected their analysis?

Share your thoughts in the comments section.

