Let the data speak for themselves.

That's a common statement in research circles.  It means that once we've collected all of our measurements, a researcher's job is to arrange them into an accurate picture.

We've already seen how numbers can be used to help us understand:

* how people will respond if we increase the price of sugary drinks,
* what would happen if you offered healthy food choices in a hospital vending machine,
* how people's socio-economic status (class) influences what they eat and drink.

Once we have defined what we are measuring, and made the measurements, it's __vital__ that we let the data speak for itself.  That is, to analyse the data in a way that doesn't presuppose or suppress the outcomes or mislead others.  

Without doing this, we won't have an accurate picture of how big a problem is, what needs most urgent attention or what strategies are most effecive.  

Letting the data speak for themselves also means that we ensure that the decisions we make and conclusions we draw really are based on what the data is telling us.  As much as it can hurt us to let go of an idea sometimes, there's no point digging in your heels over an ineffective strategy.

## Explaining data

However, that doesn't mean that data doesn't require any explanation, especially if we need to make a decision.

For example, we know that [women may soon retire on half the income of men in Australia](http://www.abc.net.au/news/2017-07-20/women-on-track-to-retire-with-half-as-much-super-as-men/8727112).  Should we be pleased or concerned that the difference in retirement savings is around 30% between men and women, aged 35?  What does that mean for the women involved and what are the most effective strategies to improve the situation?

We may need further qualitative and quantitative research to help us answer these questions, and hence the need to know more marches inexorably on.


## Your task

Have a look at these diagrams and explain their meaning to us.  What do they tell us about the most effective strategies to target obesity?
