Let the data speak for themselves.

This is a common thing to hear said amongst quantitative researchers.  It means two things:

* arrange your data into an accurate picture 
* don't let your presuppositions cloud your interpretation.

## Building an accurate picture with your data

Once you've collected your data, you will need to arrange it so that it makes sense. It's at this point that we'll need to decide exactly how we'll test our variables, and how we'll present our results.

We've already seen that [...] from _Why Experience Matters_.

In quantitative research, the simplest explanation is the best one.  When you're doing quantitative research you should try to build as accurate a picture as you can with as simple an explanation as possible.  This might seem counter-intuitive at first, but like so many things in quantitative research practicality goes hand in hand with avoiding mistakes.

It's often  useful to know if one independent variable that we can easily control has a large impact on a number of dependent variables because we can do something with that information.  If we take a more complicated or difficult route to achieving the same end, this is less useful and it provides more opportunities to make a mistake.  At the same time, of course, it would be a mistake to use a test that is too simple to adequately explain what's actually ocurring.

The most practical consequence of this when you're analysing and presenting data is minimising the number of statistical tests you take to find out about your data.  The more tests you do, the more likely you are to find one result that confirms what you'd been hoping to find even if the others don't. At best, this will tempt you to present a picture that does not give the most accurate account of what has happened; at worst, it's just shopping for the result you want.

To avoid this, you should find the most appropriate statistical test(s) to demonstrate what's happening with your data and stick with them.  We'll look at this in greater detail during Week 2.  


## What happened in the convenience store?

So, what did the data tell us? 

[! results graph](https://github.com/Chris-Rawson/Why-numbers-matter/blob/master/counterfactual.jpg) 

The graph shows us an immediate drop in sales of unhealthy red drinks, eventually falling by 24% by the end of the trial.  The sale of amber drinks also fell by around 18%.  Meanwhile, the sale of healthy green drinks rose by around 35%.

While those results are strong enough on their own, the researchers knew something was missing.  It's one thing to say that sales dropped, but what if they would have dropped anyway? 

Chris and the team were able to produce [counterfactuals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counterfactual_conditional) to predict what would have happened if the trial had not gone ahead, based on previous sales.  When you take these into account, the findings are even stronger:

* Sales of red (unhealthy) drinks decreased by 27.6% from expectations, based on sales trends.
* Sales of amber drinks decreased by 26.7% 
* Sales of green (healthy) drinks increased by 26.9%

## Your task

Make a decision based on...
