# What can quantitative research be used for?

Quantitative research is used when we need to measure changes.  

These changes, or variations, could be great or small, physical or social.  Quantitative research can help us understand the magnitude of these changes and help us to make predictions about their consequences.

They could happen naturally or as a result of human intervention.  Traditionally, quantitative research was undertaken to measure physical variables in science, technology, engineering and medicine.  These fields help us to understand and predict physical changes.
Apart from psychology, economics and related fields, few disciplines studied variations that occured in human behaviour as a result of people's experiences. 

Today, quantitative research is well established in education and other studies of society which are sometimes grouped together under headings like social or political sciences.  Increasingly, researchers are finding uses for quantitative research approaches across the Arts and Humanities.  In these fields, quantitative research can hep us understand the consequences of decisions that impact our lived experience.  For example, is there a relationship between our religious beliefs and political views, or how would respond to the redefinition of a state or national border?

## We still need qualitative research

One of the questions that sometimes pops into people's minds is 'why do we still need qualitative research'?  After all, quantitative research can tell us about the world with a greater degree of accuracy, precision and reproducability. But there are things worth knowing that we can't find out using statistics.  Trying to do so would be unscientific.

As we saw throughout _Why Experience Matters_, qualitative research is a very powerful way of understanding how we perceive, understand and communicate about the world.  We all tell ourselves powerful stories, grand narratives, to make sense of the world and our place within it.  It's worth remembering that ultimately when we analyse and explain our data we are producing a story too. 

Just like any other story, our interpretation of the results is prone to differ.  What we will do with the results and the decisions we make about them are, like any story, caught up in our experiences of how we understand the world and our place within it.  Unfortunately, some people put little stock in science.

How do you _measure_ variations in people's understanding of the world?  It's not impossible, but the complexity of these understandings and the highly invidual nature of them makes it often a prohibitive task.  Certainly, counting or arranging the distribution of words from an interview - or from a great novel - might not do much to help us to properly understand what they really mean.  And, like interpreting quantitative results, our interpretation of other stories differ too.  You might have a strong idea of why a Grecian Urn might be described as ["Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness!"](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/44477/ode-on-a-grecian-urn), but your interpretation is likely to be difficult to measure.

This does not make them any less worthy of a researcher's attention. As we learnt during _Why Experience Matters_, we all interpret and communicate stories as individuals and as societies as a way of making sense of the world and our place within it.  These paradigms, or grand narratives, have an exceptionally powerful impact on our thoughts, feelings, beliefs and behaviour. 

## Mixed methods

Quantitative research is great for measuring and comparing variations and qualitative research can get to the heart of the way we experience the world and why we behave the way we do.

In complex situations that involve people's behaviours, using a combination can give us an exceptionally powerful ins
















They can explain when one thing is associated to another.  But without logic, reason and good quality qual research can't explain why.


Quantitative research, or empirical inquiry, is used to measure, describe and discover patterns about things.  They help us understand how likely things are to happen in future.

By things, we mean almost anything: physical items, behaviours, changes, movements, growth, thoughts or expressions - and the list could very easily go on.

So long as we can measure them and compare them with things which have similar characteristics, we can undertake quantitative research. Ideally, other researchers should be able to use the same methodology that we have and come up with an identical result, and we should always have a way of finding out if our assumptions are wrong. However this can be impractical in in many cases.  

Quantitative research is therefore often used to explain behaviours, or attempt to predict them based on what's happened in the past.  

We can use quantitative research to find out all kinds of things.  We might ask:

* how to build a bridge that will take enough weight to keep motorists safe, 
* how effective a new medical treatment might be, 
* what is likely to happen to traffic flow if we put in a new highway, 
* how do people in a community typically respond to law enforcement officers?
* whether raising the minimum wage would put people out of work
* what the most effective ways to encourage people to make healthier choices about what they eat and drink are 

and so on.  

# What it's not so good for

Quantitative research is very good at helping understand how common or unique something is.  This can help us understand what is normal, and what is unusual.  But there are some things it's not so good for, such as explaining out what things mean to individuals, or describing their experience.  We often need tools besides numerical data to figure these out.  

## Your task
Options:

* The potential applications of quantitative research are just about endless.  How could numerical data be used to help you to discover patterns and solve your research problem?
* How do you account for the growth in interest in quantitative research from traditionally qualititative fields, and vice-versa?
* How would you measure these things: ....


Share your thoughts in the comments.
