Quantitative research can be used to describe, explore or explain things or behaviours [consider moving step to the beginning of Week 2].

There are three types of quantitative research questions (Balnaves & Caputi 2001):

* __Exploratory research__ helps us understand a problem that we don't know much about yet.  
* __Descriptive research__ helps us to understand the full dimensions of things.  A census is an example of descriptive research, which is used to describe certain characteristics of a group of people. 
* __Explanatory research__ looks not only at what is happening, but why.  

Let's look at an example to illustrate this.

In developed economies, a tertiary education is more vital to a well payed career than ever before (ref). Even though the number of people going to university is growing, there are still deeply entrenched inequalities around who is and is not likely to enrol and finish their degree.

An __exploratory__ study might try to build an understanding some of the reasons why this might be the case.  It would help us understand which variables we could measure to keep an eye on the problem.  

In social research, a survey is the classic example.  You might design a survey for students starting college or university for the first time which asks questions about a number of factors that we _suspect_ might have an influence to see which are most worth pursuing.

You may then consider a __descriptive__ study as a result of the survey.  Descriptive studies usually look at the distribution of the variables you identified in your exploratory study. For example, you could take a representative sample of people in the community and measure how well educated they are, their income, their parent's occupation or where they grew up.



An __explanatory study__ may then be needed to explain why this is the case.  Exploratory studies typical look at the correlation between variables.  

You might find out that fewer people go to university if their family members haven't.  You might even find that [this is a useful measure](https://theconversation.com/why-first-in-family-uni-students-should-receive-more-support-38601), because it can 'stand in' for other factors such as coming from a low income background, or being the child of a migrant.  Remember, the simplest way to reliably explain what's happening is the most useful.

## Your task

There are a number of people across the world who work full time but still struggle to support their family with basic essentials.  Even in a wealthy nation like Australia, there are [reports of families who skip meals to save money](http://www.abc.net.au/worldtoday/content/2012/s3611587.htm).

Describe an exploratory, descriptive or explanatory study that may help you understand this problem better and leave it in the comments section. 

For those of you who like an extra challenge, find someone else's study and design a study that links up to it.

###### References

###### Balnaves, M., & Caputi, P. (2001). Introduction to quantitative research methods : an investigative approach. London ; Thousand Oaks, Calif. : SAGE, 2001.

482 words
