## Correlations help us to understand if, and how, the things we have measured are related.

Is immigration related with an increase in unemployment?  Do trade barriers, such as tariffs, diminish economic growth?  

Some of the most persistent discussions we have, and largest decisions we make, as a society are about how two or more things might be connected.  These discussions explicitly relate to questions about correlations.

Other decisions we make are also about correlations, albeit more implicitly.  For example, which areas of a city require the most police, which methods of teaching schoolchildren are most effective, what strategies could we use to engage more people in the Arts or where should we build new infrastructure to ensure that our political party are returned to office?

As researchers, we have the power to help inform the discussion and make better decisions by providing detailed and accurate answers to many of these questions.  


## What is a correlation, anyway?

In everyday speech, things that are 'co-related' are simply things that share some kind of connection.  According to some cleaners we've spoken to, a warm day is correlated with sand in the carpets of some researchers offices at both Griffith and Deakin Universities.

In statistics, a correlation is an interrelationship between two variables.  Finding out if, and how, they are related can help us to solve problems. More specifically, variables that correlate vary together.  If the mercury rises, then the number of people out for an early morning surf before work goes up correspondingly, and vice-versa.  Or the more people who use a smoking patch, the more people who quit.

Take an example that comes close to the heart of the development of this course: what's the best way to help people to learn about mathematics?

A group of German researchers were particularly interested in the effectiveness of using software to help sixth-graders learn to solve mathematical problems using fractions ([Scharnagl et. al 2014](http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1129&context=numeracy)).  They were particularly concerned because they knew that bad experiences with mathematics when you're young is correlated with perceptions of being bad at it, even as adults.  Good teaching, they reasoned, would help students develop confidence to use mathematics and statistics to help inform their decisions as adults. 

To test the software's effectiveness, they split students into two groups and tested their ability to solve problems with fractions.  One group of students were then let loose on the software, while the control group were taught fractions without it.  After a little while, they tested the all of the students again.  This would let them see if using the software was correlated with better learning outcomes.

We'll come back and look at the results of this experiment a little later on.

## Your task

Think about the research problem you've got in mind.  How would it help you to figure out the correlations between things?

Which variables would you like to test the correlation between?


###### References:

###### Scharnagl, S. s., Evanschitzky, P., Streb, J., Spitzer, M., & Hille, K. (2014). Sixth Graders Benefit from Educational Software when Learning about Fractions: A Controlled Classroom study. Numeracy: _Advancing Education In Quantitative Literacy, 7_(1), 1-14. doi:10.5038/1936-4660.7.1.4








