The line of best fit represents the relationship between variables and _may_ be used to make predictions.  

Representing your data as a correlation co-efficient and a probability value is a good way to give an quick overview of the strength of your correlation.

However, you might aslo choose to represent your data on a graph called a scatterplot.  This will let you find your _Line of best fit_, which you can use to estimate what will happen most of the time when an independent variable is changed.
## Scatterplots

A scatterplot is a graph that plots the correlation of individual measurements between a dependent and independent variable on an x and y axis.

In our example, it would show us a grade six child's test scores, and how much time there'd been between tests, by putting a little dot where the two meet.  When most researchers look at a scatterplot, they assume that the dependent variable is on the y axis.   

This gives our readers more information than an r and a p value, and it also helps them to visualise a correlation.  

* r=1 would go in a straight up in line from bottom left to top right.
* r=0.5 would trend upwards from left to right, but not in a straight line
* r=0 would show random dots everywhere

Scatterplots showing negative correlations would mirror these.

[!insert graphs demonstrating this from left to right of screen.]

## The line of best fit

If you drew a straight line that passed through as close to as many dots as possible on your scatterplot, this would be called the line of best fit.  

Let's break that down a bit.

Our scatterplot tells us exactly how much students' test scores improved by and how long there was between their first and second tests.  In our control group, the correlation coefficent was just under r=0.5, so it would trend upwards from left to right.  

The line of best fit would then go in a straight line as close to as many dots as possible, also trending upwards from left to right. Going close to as many dots as possible is a method of minimising the average distance between the data points and your line.  

## making predications using the line of best fit

If you wanted to know how much better students did 'on average' if they spent more time between their first a second tests - remember, that means they'd have longer to use the educational software - you could simply look at the line of best fit to see.  

You might also use it to make a prediction.  If you were a teacher who got a little bit excited by the prospect of the software you _may estimate_ how much better students would do on the test the longer you let them use it using the line of best fit, even if there's no data from a trial that goes as long as you want them to use it.

## limitations to the predictions

Needless to say, you wouldn't want to put too much faith in your predictions.

If your dots aren't closely clustered together, you'd expect a lot of variation between your line and the actual results.

Moreover, it's extremely unlikely that the benefits of using the software go on forever, so at some point your scatterplot will begin to taper off. 

At some point, the software might end up being detrimental to the kid's test results, in which case you'd start to notice an arc.  
Incidentally, a perfect arc would give you r=0 but this would not mean that there is no relationship between variables.  It would only mean that the relationship is not 'linear' - that is, it doesn't go in a straight line.  Once your scatterplot begins to noticably curve you might be better off using [regression analysis](link), which is not covered by this course.

At the end of the day, no matter how strong a relationship appears to be, experimentation always beats estimation. The best way to find out what would really happen would be to develop another research project.

## Your task

1. Use the following graph to make an estimate of:

2. How much would faith would you put in your estimate.  Why?
