There are a number of common statistical analyses that can help you to build an understanding of your research problem.

Throughout the course, we've looked at determining the mean and understanding the distribution of your data, and reading correlations between two variables in a single data set.

However, there are situations this in not particularly useful to know, or when your data does not follow normal distribution.

Here are a number of other statistical tests that you might also find useful in your research.


## Statistical significance tests

There are times when we want to know if something is happening by chance, or if something we're looking at is somehow associated with it.  Imagine you ran an investment literacy program for people on a relatively high income.  How much _better_ would people need to do with their investment before we can be confident it had something to do with the program, and not just luck or other factors? 

_t_ and ANOVA tests both help us determine statistical significance.  Which you would use depends on the number of samples you are comparing.  You would use a:

* [One sample _t_ test](http://blog.minitab.com/blog/statistics-and-quality-data-analysis/what-is-a-t-test-and-why-is-it-like-telling-a-kid-to-clean-up-that-mess-in-the-kitchen) to see how you performed against a hypothetical target.
* [Two sample _t_test](link) to see how your program compared to another.
* [ANOVA test](link) if you had three or more samples (eg, comparing your program with two or more others)
* [MANOVA test](link) if you wanted to compare more than two variables from three or more samples.

The [Chi square test] also helps us determine if nominal (eg, eye colour, religious belief, languages spoken at home) or ordinal variables are statistically significant.  You'd do this by working out what the distribution of your data would look like if it did happen by chance (effectively your null hypothesis), and comparing your own data to it.  

Statistical significance gives us a p-value, which we have looked at elsewhere in the coures.  They tell us how probable our results were to have happened by chance.

## Correlation tests

As you know, correlation tests help us figure out if one thing happening is associated with another.

Which test you use to determine the correlation depends on the number of variables you want to test, and whether or not your data is normally distributed or not (parametric or non-parametric, respectively).

You would use a:

* [Pearson's correlation](link) to determine the association between two variables in a normally distributed sample.
* [Kendall correlation](link) to determine the depedency between two variables in a non-parametric sample.
* [Spearman's correlation](link) to determine the dependency between ordinal variables (eg, if your highest level of educational attainment is correlated with how you have ranked your satisfication with an educational experience).

If your scatterplot does not go up or down in the one, linear, direction, this means it is nonmonotonic.  In that case, you might be best to speak to a statistician.

## Your task

Imagine you're working on some market research for a newly launched online clothing retailer.  They'd like you to identify different target audiences for different forms and styles of advertising.

You have results from three surveys, each with no less than 300 and no more than 500 respondants.  The surveys ask about people's age and income (using continuous data), their location and the language they speak at home. The surveyors then show people different clothing ads in different forms and styles, and asks them to rank how much they enjoy each ad on a scale of 1 to 5, 5 meaning strong enjoyment.

* Pick one of the tests described in this step
* Find out a little bit more about it
* Let people know what you've discovered, including examples of how you could use it to help you analyse the survey results described.

## For those of you who enjoy a challenge:

Go to [the survey results](link), and perform the test.

