It’s time to apply what you’ve learned to your research problem.  [more your tasks about decision making]

Throughout this course, you have introduced yourself to some of the most common study designs and statistical tests in quantitative research.

You've looked through how to look at the shape and dimension of your problem, and thought about different strategies and research questions that might help make a difference.  Ultimately, you've discovered that everything - _everything_ - hangs off of your choice of research hypothesis.

You considered what quantitative research can be used for, and why quantitative researchers sometimes choose to use a control group.  We then looked at some of the most common study designs in quantitative research.

You've also introduced yourself to the most common statistical techniques to help you to answer your research hypothesis.  We've looked at sampling and determining the mean and the distribution of the variables in your sample.  From this we could tell what was a relatively normal or unusual result in your sample by determing standard distribution, from which we could limit the potential for false inclusions by setting confidence intervals.

Once we knew how our the variables in our sample was distributed, we could start to figure out whether or not there was any association between them.  We then looked at the difference between cause, correlation and coincidence, and figured out how to read a correlation coefficient and p-value when you see a corellation in research.  We've also looked through fitting a line through your scatterplot to make predictions and the limitations of doing so.  

Finally, you've looked at some of the other commonly used statistical tests that might help you with your research.

And, if you were not previously acquainted with it, you've learnt a little bit about quantitative language.  By now, we hope you're fairly confident in using terms like sample, population, hypothesis, mean, standard distribution, confidence intervals, p and r values, line of best fit and dependent and independent variables.  

This shouldn't be dismissed lightly; as we learnt in _Why Experience Matters [faith pronouncement]_ learning to speak someone's language gives you great insight into the way that they think.  If that's the case, then you should be on the road to being able to think like a quantitative researcher.  When you consider that you are also well on the way to thinking like a qualitative researcher, you have the power to choose from and blend an incredible range of research approaches to help you understand your problem.

## Your task

It's time to apply what you've learnt to your own research problem.

Take a look back through the online portfolio that you created during _Why Research Matters_ and added to during _Why Experience Matters_.

Now is the time to use that information to start thinking about a quantitative, or mixed methods, research design.

Start a new document, and describe:

* [the shape and dimensions](Step 1.4) of your research problem
* a research hypothesis relating to a strategy to help improve your problem
* what you will measure, and how you will collect or generate this data
* your population, your target sample and your plans for sampling - will you include a control group?
* what correlations between your variables you will be hoping to find, and how strong your results might need to be to support your hypothesis
* the statistical test you will use to generate the data, and why.

Share a link to this page of your portfolio to the group.  Take a look at two or three others, and leave some constructive feedback.

We all know that this is a big task - especially when you've just done something similar for qualitative.  However, putting the effort in now will really help you to consolidate your understanding, and will take a lot of the stress out of developing your research proposal.  As we will look at during _Why Planning Matters_, developing a strong research proposal is an iterative process.

And, as you may recall, at the conclusion of the program, you will have the opportunity to have your own research proposal assessed by real researchers in your field of interest at Deakin or Griffith University.  This will give you invaluable guidance on how to embark on your research.  

You will then be in a position to apply for a post-graduate research course and use your research proposal as a starting point.  You may even receive formal credit or recognition for your assessment, meaning that you can take one less unit of study.  How great is that?


