## How statistics can solve problems

We can use statistics to help solve problems, because they let us understand what your problem is like, identify the factors that could improve it and measure the effects of any changes you've implemented.

Throughout Week 2, you'll explore some of the most common statistical techniques and tests researchers use to solve problems, including understanding how your sample is distributed, using software to generate a correlation analysis and how to interpret it. 

Let's take an example.  

Reducing the number of cars on the road would reduce traffic congestion and emit less carbon into the atmosphere. This would mitigate some of the impacts of climate change, improve people's health and make businesses that rely on the roads for transport more efficient. 
However in many places, few people share a car even with their neighbours or colleagues when driving to work.

The first step to understanding this problem would be to work out a few of the facts like how many people own cars or drive to work on their own.  Without doing this kind of [descriptive study](glossary) we'd have nothing to measure and no way of knowing if our [interventions](glossary) have made things better.

After interviewing a few people in your local area, you might even discover some people don't even share with the people living in their house when travelling to work if they are old enough to drive. If this is widespread, it gives you an obvious starting point for crafting interventions that encourage people to carpool.

To check, we might hypothesise: 

> that the number of residents eligible for a drivers license residing in a dwelling does not relate to the number of adults who share a car when travelling to work.

To test this hypothesis, you will need to take a [sample](glossary) and figure out the [proportion](glossary) and [distribution](glossary) of eligible residents who live in a dwelling, and whether or not they share a ride to work.

## Proportion
Proportion helps us to understand how typically something happens within different sections of our sample.

For example, you might take a sample and find out that out of the 500 households sampled, there were 1.96 eligible drivers in each on average, and that:

Number of eligible drivers | Number of households | Percentage of households
------------ | ------------ | ------------- 
0 | 38 | 8%
1 | 115| 23%
2 | 181| 36%
3 | 131| 26%
4 | 33 | 7%
5 | 2 | 0%
__Total__ | 500 | 100%

It might also be useful to find out how likely these results are to deviate from the average (called [standard deviation](glossary)), and determine how likely the results from our sample are to be representative of the whole populate (called [confidence intervals](glossary).

We'd need to do the same thing with the number of people who share a car to work, and how many people they share it with.

## Correlation

Correlation helps us to figure out if there might be a relationship between what’s happening.  To test our hypothesis, we need to know more than proportions.  We need to know if the proportion of people sharing a car to work increases alongside the proportion of eligible drivers living at the same house.

If they do increase together, we'd know that there is a relationship between living together and travelling to work together and so our hypothesis was wrong.  But if the relationship was weak, that wouldn't prevent us trialling a new intervention (perhaps an education campaign) and seeing if more people living in the same house travelled to work together afterwards.  That way, we could decide whether to keep going with this intervention or trying something else.
