# Statistics [discussion]


Statistics can undoubtedly be used to help us build a more accurate, nuanced and realistic picture of the world.

They can be used in all kinds of ways and places, for many different reasons.  This is because statistics can be used to understand a truly huge variety of things, behaviours and events.  So long as something can be measured, we can apply statistics to it.
Learning about statistics can help us to make better informed decisions, or develop critical insights into the decisions that are made on our behalves.  While it takes many years of hard work to master the science of statistics, developing your own understanding can put you well on the way to being able to understand the majority of the conversations we have about them.
Chris Stevenson, your lead educator, is a living example of all of the value and potential of statistics.  Trained as a Mathematician, Chris had a long and storied career in the [Australian Bureau of Statistics](http://www.abs.gov.au) before becoming an academic.  He now works as a biostatistician and epidemiologist, looking at the things we could do as a community to live healthier lives.

Decisions made using statistics can be controversial
Statistics can be used to make decisions about how people do their jobs, who and how many people get into university or even deciding who receives medical treatment.
Used appropriately, statistics can be used to make sure that we make these kinds of important decisions based on better information.
However, nothing can predict the future with absolute certainty and like any tool, they can be used and abused.  What’s ‘better’ is often a matter of perspective.  
At the end of the day, statistics should help us to develop an understanding of who we are and our place in the world.  If statistics are used unethically to dehumanise or cause harm, we are right to call this unethical behaviour.  We will look at ethics in much greater detail in the next course: Why Ethics Matter.

Your task 
How do statistics impact on your life and your community?
