Does your question get to the heart of the matter?

Asking 'how many people carpool if they live with other people who drive' might not seem like such a different question to 'are people more likely to carpool with their family than their closest neighbours.'  But they'd lead to different kinds of research projects.

It's important to spend a bit of time getting your research question right, because _everything_ flows on from it.  It's you question that will help you figure out what you're trying to do, exactly what data to collect and how you will analyse it.  It's this that will tell you if your problem is researchable, or if there's no way you could get any closer to the answer of your question.

## Hypotheses

[Hypotheses](glossary) are used all the time in statistical research, because they tell us exactly what we're trying to find out and outline how we would know if we're wrong.  In fact, any statistical test includes both a hypothesis and a null hypothesis, even if we don't set them out explicitly.

Hypotheses conventionally begin with the word 'that,' because they predict that something will happen if you change something else.  In other words, they set out an idependent and dependent variable and predicts a relationship between them. A hypothesis might be 'that people are more likely to share a car to work with their family members than with their neighbours,' for example.

Because a hypothesis is a prediction, it must be [falsifiable](glossary) for us to test it.  We will never know if our predications are always accurate, but we can test if it isn't under certain circumstances.  In other words, we can't know if people will _always_ be more likely to carpool with their families than their neighbours, but we can know for sure if it's not the case.

That means that when we set out a hypothesis, we also need a [null hypothesis](glossary).  The null hypothesis is a statement that tells us what it would look like if our prediction hasn't happened.  For example, 'that people not more likely to share their car to work with their family members than with their neighbours.'  We'd know this is accurate if the data tells us that more people carpool with their neighbours than their family members, or if we get random results meaning that neither seem to make much of a difference.


## Fundamentals of asking a research question

A good research question or hypothesis should be:

* **Clear.**  Your research question needs to explain exactly what you're trying to find out in a way that is clear, coherent and easy to explain.
* **Specific.**  Make sure your research question is well focussed.  Ask 'what proportion of university students express the lack of financial earning capacity as their primary reason for leaving higher education prior to graduation?' instead of 'why do people quit college or university?'  
* **Researchable.** If you ask 'why do people make the decision to migrate' but don't have any migrants to ask, how are you going to find out?
* **Identifies your variables.**  In quantitative research, your question should identify exactly which variables you're intending to observe. 'Does natural window light reduce office worker's stress indices as measured by this or that standardised test' is a much better question than 'how can natural light help us to feel calm, in control and happy at work?'
* **Predict behaviour.** In order to answer your quantitative question, you've got to know when the answer is 'no.'  Your question, or hypothesis, should explicitly state what you are expecting will happen so that you can tell if it doesn't.
* **Significant.** Is your question really worth the time and effort it would take to find out the answer?



## Your task

Most national governments release statistics relating to people's daily commutes to and from work online.

Take a look at a summary of your national statistics and, based on your reading, craft an interest and creative research question.  Post it in the comments. 

If your research question might interact or overlap with someone elses, leave a comment and discuss how you might be able to work together.

If you can't find statistics for your nation, choose from:

* [Australia](http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mediareleasesbyReleaseDate/7DD5DC715B608612CA2581BF001F8404?OpenDocument)
* [United Kingdom](https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/national-travel-survey-2016)
* [United States of America](https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2015/acs/acs-32.html)
* [China](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0016364)
* South Africa: [report (PDF)](
http://www.statssa.gov.za/publications/P0320/P03202013.pdf) and [official press statement](http://www.statssa.gov.za/?p=2493)



