# What type of data will you collect to answer your research question? [rewrite to use heart examples]

There're a lot of different things that we can do with numbers and so there are different types of numerical data.  The decisions we make about which type of data to collect affects how you analyse it, and therefore your results.

Different types of data relate to your decision about how to describe and measure your problem (which relates to the question you've asked, which relates to the shape and dimensions of your problem... and so on).

Here are the main categories of numerical data.

## Discrete / continuous data

__Discrete__ data is used for counting, so it can only take certain values. How many cigarettes does a person smoke a day?

__Continuous__ data is can take on any value within a range.  For example, what is your blood pressure?  It's used for measurement.

You don't usually choose between discrete or continuous data - they tend to be inherent to what you're trying to achieve.

## Categorical data

Categorical data is data used to represent categories, like whether or not someone is married.  You could choose to categorise 'discrete' data.  For example, you could categorise someone as a non-smoker, light-smoker or heavy-smoker, rather than recording the number of cigarettes they smoke per day.

BMI is an example of this decision.

## Numerical data


## Ordinal data

## Choosing a data type

## why does this matter?

numerical, categorical and ordinal data types.
