Averages help us to determine the most common characteristics of a sample.

Throughout the next few steps, we'll look at averages and proportions, so that you can figure out how unique or normal an individual thing is within your sample (mean and median), how much they are likely to be varied by (standard deviation) and how likely your sample results are to be the same as the results you'd get if you tested everything in a target population (confidence interval).

In this step, we'll look at mean, median and interquartile range.

## Why is an average important?

Averages can help us to figure out what's normal and what's unusual.

What is a normal blood pressure, and what happens if our blood pressure is not normal?

Blood pressure measurements look at the highest (systolic) or lowest (diastolic) pressure your blood reaches - 120/80 means a systolic blood pressure of 120mmHg, and a diastolic blood pressure of 80mmHg.      

After millions of blood pressure tests, we now know that normal blood pressure range is around 120/80.  We also know that blood pressure lower than 90/60 or higher than 140/90 may indicate that you have a health problem.  If you believe you may be in that situation, you should go and see your doctor.

So how do we figure out what a normal range is?

To start with, we need to determine the mean and median of people blood pressure readings.

## The mean 



The __mean__ of your data is the average of all your data.  To calculate the mean, just add up all of your numbers and divide it by the amount of numbers you have. For example, if you have 5 systolic blood pressure measurements you could do the following sum:

115 + 124 + 100 + 99 + 143 + 119 / 6 = 116.6 

The mean uses all of the information you have on hand to calculate an average, but if there are a few people with much higher or lower blood pressure than others, they could unbalance the result. If we added in one person experiencing severe hypotension whose systolic reading is 189, then our mean would be 127 instead of 116.6.  When it comes to your blood pressure, that's a significant difference.

## The median

The median is the midpoint in your data. To determine your median you'll need to work out the point which half of your data is greater than and half of your data is lesser than.

You'll need to line your data up from least to greatest and find the point that is in the exact middle of the list.  If you have an odd number of measurements, this will be one of the numbers in the list.  If you have an even number, you should determine the difference between the two numbers on either side of the middle of the list and divide it by two.

In the example we looked at above, we would line up our data like so:

99, 100, 115, 119, 124, 143, 189

The middle of the list falls between 115 and 119.  The difference between them is 4, which, divided by two is two.  Add this to the lower number, or subtract it from the higher, and we find our median: 117.

Median can be a good way of dealing with data that has a large outlier.  If we added the poor person with severe hypertension, our median only moves to 119, which is probably closer to an accurate picture of what's normal than the mean at 127.  However, it doesn't use all the information we have available.

## Your task

Download the data and find the mean and median point of any of the variables listed.  Share your mean and median with the group.
