Averages help us to determine the most common characteristics of a sample.

Throughout the next few steps, we'll look at averages and proportions, so that you can figure out how unique or normal an individual thing is within your sample (mean and median), how much they are likely to be varied by (standard deviation) and how likely your sample results are to be the same as the results you'd get if you tested everything in a target population (confidence interval).

In this step, we'll look at mean, median and interquartile range.

## Why is an average important?

Averages can help us to figure out what's normal and what's unusual.

What is a normal blood pressure, and what happens if our blood pressure is not normal?

Blood pressure measurements look at the highest (systolic) or lowest (diastolic) pressure your blood reaches - 120/80 means a systolic blood pressure of 120mmHg, and a diastolic blood pressure of 80mmHg.      

After millions of blood pressure tests, we now know that normal blood pressure range is around 120/80.  We also know that blood pressure lower than 90/60 or higher than 140/90 may indicate that you have a health problem.  If you believe you may be in that situation, you should go and see your doctor.

So how do we figure out what a normal range is?

To start with, we need to determine the mean and median of people's blood pressure readings.

## The mean 

The __mean__ of your data is the average of all your data.  

The mean uses all of the information you have on hand to calculate an average, but can be misleading if there are very unusual results.
A few people experiencing hypertension, or very high blood pressure, could throw off the results.

Take a look at how to determine the mean of your data.

## The median

The median is the midpoint in your data. That is, it's the point at which half of your data is greater than, and half is lesser than if you put them all into a line.

To determine your median you'll need to work out the point which half of your data is greater than and half of your data is lesser than.

Median can be a good way of dealing with data that has outliers - that'd be people experiencing hypertension in our scenario.   If there are hundreds of measurements, and only two or three people experience hypertension, our median may be closer to an accurate picture of what's normal.  But, of course, it's really just a halfway point in a list.

## Your task

Explain the difference between the mean and the median in your own words, and give examples of how they can be used.



