Standard deviation describes how much variation you’re likely to encounter in your sample.

As researchers, we tend to measure things that already have something in common.  If you're measuring the length of the leaves on a tree or a person's blood pressure, there's only so much variation you'd expect to find.  It's very common for most of the leaves, or most of the people's blood pressures, to be in the vicinity of the average.  Although, of course, this is not always the case.

Statisticians have seen so many different measurements come and go that they noticed a pattern in the measurements themselves.  This pattern is called __standard distribution__.

Experienced quantitative researchers have gotten to know this pattern so well that they have developed a number of formulas that we can use to understand how likely, or unlikely, a result is if it conforms to the pattern of standard distribution (of course, they have formulas to do the same thing if they don't - researchers are very clever people).


## Standard distribution

Standard distribution looks a bit like this. 

This graph describes some, eh, research I did on the weekend.  I hit a golf ball 425 times to see how far I could drive it.

On the:

* X (horizontal) axis is the distance that I drove the ball, in metres.
* Y (vertical) axis is the number of times I drove the ball that distance.

My worst drive went somewhere between 10 and 20 metres and my best was between 130 and 140.


You can see that the largest proportion of people of my golf balls - around 17.5% - travelled between 70 and 80 metres.  Just under half went between 60 and 90 feet.  That leaves the only 33% of the times that I hit a golfball that it went a different distance, meaning that these were either unusually long or unusually short.

The actual numbers are less important than the curve of the graph.  If you make a [histogram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Histogram) from one of the variables in your data, and it looks like the famous bell curve, then your data probably follows the pattern of standard distribution.

You can check this yourself by...[making a histogram in excel, checking against the bellcurve line]. 




## Standard deviation

Standard deviation is a measure that you can use to figure out how likely something is to vary from the average.

## What if your sample is not normally distributed?
Use this online calculator.  If your histogram doesn't fit the curve, you don't have normal distribution.
