# Standard Deviation Video


Hello everyone,

If you haven't read through the step below, I'd suggest you do so and come back and watch the video when you're finished.

I hope you're ready to get busy with some numbers.

In this video, I'm going to step you through two different ways you can calculate your standard deviation.


We're going to use Google Sheets to help us.  Google Sheets doesn't cost anything, but if it's the first time you've used it, you will need to create an account and log in. Take a look at your task on this page for further instructions about how to do this.  

Alternatively, you could use Microsoft Excel and the process will be exactly the same.

First, we're going to calculate the mean height of my lemons, and figure out their standard distributions.  This time round, I'm going to use Google Sheet's inbuilt standard deviation calculator.

If you haven't done so already, please open a new Google Sheet.  

Once you have a new sheet open, you'll need to put in your observations or measurements, each beneath the other in a single colmun.  I've measured the height and width of lemons of 42 lemons growing on my tree out the back and put them into column A.

The first thing I need to do is to find my mean.  I'm going to name column B 'mean' and then I'm going to use the average command to tell me what the mean is.  

[On screen type =AVERAGE]  I've got 42 lemons, each with their own row in Column A.  My first row is the title of column, so my data will be in Column A, from row 2 to row 43 [On screen type =AVERAGE(A2:A43)].

There!  Sheets has calculated for the mean height of my lemons, 8.3 cm. 

Finding the standard distribution is just as easy.

[=STDEV(A2:A43)]





You _could_ use excel to find your standard deviation without the mean, but that wouldn't be much help.





https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1o4EkaLDsR79_SqWn03MgvMjAxIzSL7EUIPHduw6nRic/edit?usp=sharing
