# Why do numbers matter? REVIEW

Hello, and welcome to the course. 

Throughout this course, we’ll be taking a looking at why numbers matter.

Every day, you, and the people around you, are making decisions using numbers.

We use numbers to make decisions on everything from what to buy and sell and when to set our alarm clock, to our choice of career or where to send our kids to school.

All the while, policy makers and influences are using numbers to help inform decisions that have the potential to affect a great number of people. Numbers can help us understand the effect of planning regulations on the ecosystems in your community, or help governments decide how to spend their limited resources fairly and effectively 

Quantitative research can help us understand what these decisions mean to people locally, nationally and potentially even globally.
By the end of this course, you’ll be able to

* describe and apply statistical analysis, including types of data, averages, proportions and confidence intervals.
* describe bivariate correlation and calculate them using computer software.
* apply statistical analyses to make decisions about real world problems.
* generate an appropriate quantitative study design to answer a research question.
*	justify and demonstrate the role of quantitative research in your research project.

With a bit of application and determination, you will be able to develop these skills to research and make evidence-based decisions on the things that you care most about.
