A test is valid if it measures what it claims to measure.

When you present our research results to the people who matter and can help make a difference, you want to be sure that they can rely on the results.  Your results need to really demonstrate what they claim to, or else you could contribute to bad decisions being made. 

There are two main threats to the [_validity_](link to glossary) of your results. They will be less valid if you are measuring the relationship between two dependent variables, or if they vary so much from other results that you start to wonder if you've made a mistake.  You can make sure your results are valid by designing good studies.

## Internal validity

Sometimes there are a lot of things that can explain what you think you've discovered.  It would be a mistake to measure a child's height and their literacy test scores and find that how well a child reads is caused by how tall they are.  There's a much more satisfactory explanation.

It's not always as simple as this.  Imagine that you have introduced new workplace safety training for your colleagues.  If you have fewer workplace accidents is it because of the training?  If there are more, is it the training's fault?  

You will achieve [internally validity](link to glossary) if you are measuring the effects of an [independent variable](link to glossary) on a [dependent variable](link to glossary), not just that two things happen to be related.  The higher your internal validity, the more confident we can be that you're describing a cause and effect relationship.

Using control groups is one of the most common and effective ways to improve the internal validity of a study. Another common method is to use a protocol, or standardised instructions to taking a particular test.  These instructions have almost always been thoroughly tested for their internal valdity.

## External validity

Sometimes you get results that are so strange that you wonder if it could possibly be true.  If you measured the boiling point of water at 119 degrees celcius, you know you've made a mistake.  If you find it takes people over three hours to get to work on average, you'd wonder.

Your results will be [externally valid](link to glossary) if they can be generalised.  That is, you'd get the similar results if you did the same test in a similar setting.  One of the ways that you can check for external validity is to see if they vary wildly from similar tests in similar settings.  


## Your task 

Slack and Draugalis (2001) identify [a number of threats to internal and external validity](https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/414875_3). Take a look through the article and learn a little more about one of the threats listed.

Use an example to illustrate what you've leart and let others know in the comments section.

For those of you who like a challenge, read through [the original article](http://wp.vcu.edu/radres/wp-content/uploads/sites/2550/2012/10/Establishing-the-internal-and-external-validity-of-experimental-studies.pdf).

[484 words]
